>> Will Sentance: Let's suppose that
we're building a quiz game with users.
Let's see our example data.
We've got a user here with
a name property Phil.
It's a name characteristic Phil.
A score characteristic 4.
Another user with name Julia,
a score and the ability for
either of these users to
have their score increased.
What would be the best way to store this
data functionality together, Michael?
>> Michael: Within an object.
>> Will Sentance: In an object, beautiful.
Because objects allow us to store data
with their associated functionality
all bundled up on an object.
There it is.
And this is going to enable us and
everything we do today as we lay out more
and more sophisticated approaches to
structuring our code, orienting it around
objects so that the heart is always gonna
come back to can I do this thing here?
Cuz this is gonna make my life effortless.
If I can run a function on the right-hand
side of a dot, that is to say,
apply it to an object and know that
it's available on that object it,
I can apply my functionality
to my associated,
to my relevant,
to my pertinent data, no problem.
That is my dream.
Throughout the whole session today we are
just gonna go again and again and check.
Can I run my appropriate, my pertinent
functionality on my pertinent data?
Are they bundled up?
Not go hunting for the increment function,
not go hunting for
the function that's relevant
to my User1 data, but
know that it's right there
on my object itself.
That is my dream.
Well, can we do it here?
Well, yeah, absolutely.
User1, and there's an increment property,
and increment method on it.
We call it, and
it's going to change User1's data.
This is known as encapsulation.
JavaScript doesn't implement this very,
very, in a very strict way.
But the essence is put the appropriate
functionality with the appropriate data,
and the ones that are related
to each other, and
bundle them up into
what we call an object.
All right,
let’s keep creating our objects.
But first, note briefly that we would
have more functions than just this.
We’d have ability to decrease score,
delete user, login.
We’d have a ton of functions.
And ideally,
they're all gonna be available,
userone.decreasescore, userone.login,
userone.logout.
Folk, this will make our life
writing code so much easier.
All right, let's create objects using a
few other approaches just to get ourselves
in the mindset of how we would go about
creating these objects that in any
application each user is gonna be
represented by a different object with its
data and its associated functionality
bundled up on that object.
Think User2 might be,
I don't know, well, let's see.